---
id: jsx-in-depth
title: JSX in Depth
permalink: docs/jsx-in-depth.html
prev: displaying-data.html
next: jsx-spread.html
---


----
@Question: Name two types of inputs that React can render?
@Answer: HTML tags (strings) and React components (classes)

@Question: What is an 'HTML Tag'? What does Tag stand for?

@Question: Can you render MyComponent?
```javascript
var MyComponent = React.createClass({/*...*/});
var myElement = <MyComponent someProperty={true} />;
ReactDOM.render(myElement, document.getElementById('example'));
```


@Question: How to tell if this is a local component class or an HTML tag?
@Answer: local components classes utalize uppercase first ```<MyComponent />``` vs ```<div />```
@Clarity: Local components are helpful with unique attributes.

@Question: What is a 'local component class'?
@Answer: A component's element with inherited attributes. More than a string.
@Clarity: To render html code, we create a tree of elements containing one another. Each element's attributes can be defined using a string converted to HTML, or refrence pre-created component classes, or create a new class. By creating a new class, this is an XML-sh approach to reuse code with inherited attributes.
@Clarity: JSX uses upper case, vs lower case used by html strings.

@Clarity: Since JSX is JavaScript, identifiers such as `class` and `for` are discouraged as XML attribute names. Instead, React DOM components expect DOM property names like `className` and `htmlFor`, respectively.

@Question: Clarify this statement "XML has the benefit of balanced opening and closing tags."

@Question: Components must be declared inside the scope of ____?

@Question: What is the 'displayName' component attribute?
```var Nav = React.createClass({displayName: "Nav", });```

@Question: What is this about? > The JSX expression always evaluates to a ReactElement. The actual implementation details may vary. An optimized mode could inline the ReactElement as an object literal to bypass the validation code in `React.createElement`.

@Question: Format these components with namespaced technique:
```javascript
var Form = MyComponent;
var FormRow = Row;

var App = (
  <Form>
    <FormRow/>
  </Form>
);
```
@Answer:
'FormRow' is now an attribute under `Form' component. We no longer need to locally declare it.
```javascript
var Form = MyComponent;

var App = (
  <Form>
    <Form.Row/>
  </Form>
);
```

@Challenge:
Write this JSX code into plain JavaScript:
```javascript
// Input (JSX):
var person = <Person name={window.isLoggedIn ? window.name : ''} />;
```


@Question: If no value to an attribute is included, JSX will treat it as blank?
@Answer: Value will be treated as 'true'. This often comes up when using HTML form elements, with attributes like `disabled`, `required`, `checked` and `readOnly`.
These two equations are true:
```JavaScript
<input type="button" disabled />;
<input type="button" disabled={true} />;
```

Question: What does this output:
```javascript
// Input (JSX):
var content = <Container>{window.isLoggedIn ? <Nav /> : <Login />}</Container>;
```
Answer:
```javascript
// Output (javascript)
var content = react.createElement( Container, null, window.isLoggedIn ? react.createElement( Nav ) : react.createElement( Login )  );
```
Clarity-Question: What is 'null' function?
Answer: null is included because there are no attributes!

----

[JSX](https://facebook.github.io/jsx/) is a JavaScript syntax extension that looks similar to XML. You can use a simple JSX syntactic transform with React.

## Why JSX?

You don't have to use JSX with React. You can just use plain JS. However, we recommend using JSX because it is a concise and familiar syntax for defining tree structures with attributes.

It's more familiar for casual developers such as designers.

XML has the benefit of balanced opening and closing tags. This helps make large trees easier to read than function calls or object literals.

It doesn't alter the semantics of JavaScript.

## HTML Tags vs. React Components

React can either render HTML tags (strings) or React components (classes).

To render an HTML tag, just use lower-case tag names in JSX:

```javascript
var myDivElement = <div className="foo" />;
ReactDOM.render(myDivElement, document.getElementById('example'));
```

To render a React Component, just create a local variable that starts with an upper-case letter:

```javascript
var MyComponent = React.createClass({/*...*/});
var myElement = <MyComponent someProperty={true} />;
ReactDOM.render(myElement, document.getElementById('example'));
```

React's JSX uses the upper vs. lower case convention to distinguish between local component classes and HTML tags.

> Note:
>
> Since JSX is JavaScript, identifiers such as `class` and `for` are discouraged
> as XML attribute names. Instead, React DOM components expect DOM property
> names like `className` and `htmlFor`, respectively.

## The Transform

React JSX transforms from an XML-like syntax into native JavaScript. XML elements, attributes and children are transformed into arguments that are passed to `React.createElement`.

```javascript
var Nav;
// Input (JSX):
var app = <Nav color="blue" />;
// Output (JS):
var app = React.createElement(Nav, {color:"blue"});
```

Notice that in order to use `<Nav />`, the `Nav` variable must be in scope.

JSX also allows specifying children using XML syntax:

```javascript
var Nav, Profile;
// Input (JSX):
var app = <Nav color="blue"><Profile>click</Profile></Nav>;
// Output (JS):
var app = React.createElement(
  Nav,
  {color:"blue"},
  React.createElement(Profile, null, "click")
);
```

JSX will infer the class's [displayName](/react/docs/component-specs.html#displayname) from the variable assignment when the displayName is undefined:

```javascript
// Input (JSX):
var Nav = React.createClass({ });
// Output (JS):
var Nav = React.createClass({displayName: "Nav", });
```

Use the [Babel REPL](https://babeljs.io/repl/) to try out JSX and see how it desugars into native JavaScript, and the [HTML to JSX converter](http://magic.reactjs.net/htmltojsx.htm) to convert your existing HTML to JSX.

If you want to use JSX, the [Getting Started](/react/docs/getting-started.html) guide shows how to set up compilation.

> Note:
>
> The JSX expression always evaluates to a ReactElement. The actual
> implementation details may vary. An optimized mode could inline the
> ReactElement as an object literal to bypass the validation code in
> `React.createElement`.

## Namespaced Components

If you are building a component that has many children, like a form, you might end up with something with a lot of variable declarations:

```javascript
// Awkward block of variable declarations
var Form = MyFormComponent;
var FormRow = Form.Row;
var FormLabel = Form.Label;
var FormInput = Form.Input;

var App = (
  <Form>
    <FormRow>
      <FormLabel />
      <FormInput />
    </FormRow>
  </Form>
);
```

To make it simpler and easier, *namespaced components* let you use one component that has other components as attributes:

```javascript
var Form = MyFormComponent;

var App = (
  <Form>
    <Form.Row>
      <Form.Label />
      <Form.Input />
    </Form.Row>
  </Form>
);
```

To do this, you just need to create your *"sub-components"* as attributes of the main component:

```javascript
var MyFormComponent = React.createClass({ ... });

MyFormComponent.Row = React.createClass({ ... });
MyFormComponent.Label = React.createClass({ ... });
MyFormComponent.Input = React.createClass({ ... });
```

JSX will handle this properly when compiling your code.

```javascript
var App = (
  React.createElement(Form, null,
    React.createElement(Form.Row, null,
      React.createElement(Form.Label, null),
      React.createElement(Form.Input, null)
    )
  )
);
```

> Note:
>
> This feature is available in [v0.11](/react/blog/2014/07/17/react-v0.11.html#jsx) and above.

## JavaScript Expressions

### Attribute Expressions

To use a JavaScript expression as an attribute value, wrap the expression in a pair of curly braces (`{}`) instead of quotes (`""`).

```javascript
// Input (JSX):
var person = <Person name={window.isLoggedIn ? window.name : ''} />;
// Output (JS):
var person = React.createElement(
  Person,
  {name: window.isLoggedIn ? window.name : ''}
);
```

### Boolean Attributes

Omitting the value of an attribute causes JSX to treat it as `true`. To pass `false` an attribute expression must be used. This often comes up when using HTML form elements, with attributes like `disabled`, `required`, `checked` and `readOnly`.

```javascript
// These two are equivalent in JSX for disabling a button
<input type="button" disabled />;
<input type="button" disabled={true} />;

// And these two are equivalent in JSX for not disabling a button
<input type="button" />;
<input type="button" disabled={false} />;
```

### Child Expressions

Likewise, JavaScript expressions may be used to express children:

```javascript
// Input (JSX):
var content = <Container>{window.isLoggedIn ? <Nav /> : <Login />}</Container>;
// Output (JS):
var content = React.createElement(
  Container,
  null,
  window.isLoggedIn ? React.createElement(Nav) : React.createElement(Login)
);
```

### Comments

It's easy to add comments within your JSX; they're just JS expressions. You just need to be careful to put `{}` around the comments when you are within the children section of a tag.

```javascript
var content = (
  <Nav>
    {/* child comment, put {} around */}
    <Person
      /* multi
         line
         comment */
      name={window.isLoggedIn ? window.name : ''} // end of line comment
    />
  </Nav>
);
```

> NOTE:
>
> JSX is similar to HTML, but not exactly the same. See [JSX gotchas](/react/docs/jsx-gotchas.html) for some key differences.
